Political information has potential for misuse by malicious actors. In the following we discuss ethical considerations of this work and steps taken to mitigate potential harms.

Malicious actors, such as governments attempting to interfere in other countries’ elections, are already known to spread misinformation and try to sway users to particular ideologies and voting patterns. In addition, although exact mechanisms and the role of the platform are still debated, social media has been consistently linked to increasing partisan polarization. Consequently, there is no security through obscurity in this domain. Strong understanding and effective countermeasures are needed to prevent the spread of misinformation and divisiveness.

As we show in our introduction and literature review, party prediction has a fundamental role in detecting partisan biases on Twitter. To understand how groups become polarized or influenced, it is necessary to accurately identify members of these groups. Accurate party prediction can help researchers and policymakers understand how and why certain groups become polarized and how information and ideas spread within and between these groups. Although this could potentially be misused to attempt to influence users, this risk is relatively low because our methods do not enable fine-grained targeting. In addition, fine-grained targeting has already been done using other unrelated tools, such as targeted advertisements through social media platforms. Therefore, the risks are low compared to the societal benefits of better party predictions offered by our method, which should in turn lead to a better and more robust understanding of how to create healthy online environments, mitigate extreme polarization, reduce influence of bots, and limit the spread of misinformation. 

In our study, we only use publicly available data that has been collected in compliance with Twitter's terms of service. In addition, we will never release any identifiable information in order to prevent any future misuse of the user data collected in this study. Through our collection process, all users collected publicly discuss politics in both their tweets and user profiles, and consequently would not assume their political affiliations are hidden. We note that this is an equivalent or stronger constraint on users included in our study than in many other studies in the literature (see for example Barberá (2015), Grinberg et al. (2019), Puthak, Madani and Joseph (2021), and Hobbs et al. (2017)).
